I've talked a lot about lambda expressions in the videos and the built in functional interfaces, you'll
have noticed that after the last video that many of the methods on Giovana YouTube streamed upstream
is the functional interface types I've discussed in the video on Javas built in interfaces as parameter
types.
This table shows the most common of the interfaces from our previous discussion, I've included copyrighter
here, although it's in the Javadoc Utah package, but not in the Javadoc Utah package, but is used
in the sorted method.
They also show you some of the methods on the stream interface that use these interfaces as parameters.
So here in this table with a functional interface binary operator, the functional interface better
ploy takes two parameters of type two returns.
Type T and the stream method which have parameters of these types is reduce next comparator.
Look at the functional interface method.
Compare the two parameters to renew the stream method mext min and sorted next consumer as well as by
consumer.
The accept method is the functional device method takes an argument of t i return types outpoured and
the string method that's appropriate.
Either one which have parameters of these types collect or reach and peak.
That was for consumer and by consumer.
The next functional interface is called function, the apply method is the functional interface method
takes a perimeter of type T returns a value of type are in the three methods here, flat map and map.
Next functional interface is unary operator.
The method is apply Texas parameter of type T and returns an object of type T.
The string method which have parameters of these types is just one iterate next predicate.
The functional interface method is test that the perimeter of T and returns are boolean and the three
methods which have parameters of these types or match any match drop while filter iterate non-match
take while last one.
The function device supplier has a method which returns a type T the three methods which have parameters
of these types collect and generate.
Well, let's bring back to Cart now.
We need to create a new class in our streams project what call upon stream lamda examples.
All right, so with this card that I've posted in, I'm demonstrating using a variety of stream operations
with lambda expressions, you can say we've got our class there and our main method, the first time
creating an array of names for testing.
I start by using the array's street method to create a stream from the string array that we defined
on line 16, also demonstrate the use of the intermediate filter method using a predicate lambda expression.
You can say that you can change.
Filters are shown also demonstrating the use of the terminal Operation Count, which counts the number
of elements that the result contains.
The moving on down to the next example.
They're demonstrating the use of the drop while intermediate operation, which was introduced in Java
nine and takes a predicate.
Elements are dropped or the predicate continues to be true.
A demonstrated use of the collect terminal operation which returns results in an object type of your
choosing.
Right?
Next example is take while some demonstrating the use of the take while intermediate operation, which
was also introduced in Java nine, which keeps elements.
While the predicate remains true, it also demonstrated the use of Schipp, which is an intermediate
operation which skips the requested number of elements than the last one there, demonstrated the use
of REDUCE, which is a terminal operation that uses a binary operator to produce some aggregate result.
In this case, you can see that I'm summing all of the values.
Let's run this code.
And you can see the output shown below.
There in all of these examples, you saw that I was using lambda expressions, if the method you're
using in the lambda expression is named, i.e. it exists in your class or another class in a library
or package, you can use a method reference instead.
Let's look at this in code.
We're going to add a method here to our class down the bottom.
So I could say it's a very simple static method, names some which simply adds two values together that's
changed the code that uses the reduced operation on to stream.
But you can say that code is directly above the basically what we're doing.
We're just going to change what's in the reduce.
Mythical there at the moment, you can say there's an expression, I can change that to be stream,
I can choose this one here, colon, colon, some, which is the name of the method we just created
on 63.
And it's sort of the parentheses I dot get.
And close off in parentheses.
So we know using that method directly, instead of a lambda expression that we had previously on this,
we should get the identical results we had previously.
You can see the airport reduced example, some of the numbers, 10, 50, exactly the same as it was
previously.
All right.
So let's actually change to some method by adding a third parameter to see what happens in.
See, by doing that, we've got a compiler error on the method reference stream, lambda expressions,
colon, colon, some.
Cannot resolve method some, the method signature of the method in the method of reference must have
the same signature as the method declared in the functional interface.
The reduced method takes a binary operator and therefore must have two parameters and only two both.
At the same time obviously introduced the third parameter here, which caused the problem.
If you try to do something like remove this third parameter, change the second one to long and change
the return type to a long.
This time, a slightly different era Patriots type in method reference cannot convert A to a javadoc
length an integer.
That's because, as I mentioned, a binary operator must have two parameters of the same type, which
also must match the return type.
And that's not the case.
That changes back to an INT.
Change the second parameter to an integer class.
And you can see that actually fixes the problem, so method reference is more forgiving here than a
lambda expression.
Let's try and add a bit of code now to the main method.
September.
So you can see here we look at the era.
We can't define a lambrix person with a primitive ENT and a solid to a binary operator, but obviously
in this case we're doing a similar thing.
Sixty when we're using a method reference and that works fine, it's method references being a little
bit more forgiving than a lambda expression that.
Now, alternatively, I can use the same method declared on the ED wrapper class to have occurred during
that.
Basically I'm just going to replace this streamliner.
Example's with integer as an integer class.
And we've got the same result right in both of those instances, a reference to class time followed
by two columns and the name of the method on the class.
So let's get the video here.
And the next one, I want to look at the four types of method references.
See you in the next video.